Config rewrite (#17152)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/configuration/index.md

[!code-csharp[](index/samples/3.x/ConfigSample/Pages/Test.cshtml.cs?name=snippet)]

The default <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json.JsonConfigurationProvider> loads configuration in the following order:

1. *appsettings.json*
1. *appsettings.*`Environment`*.json* : For example, the *appsettings*.***Production***.*json* and *appsettings*.***Development***.*json* files. The environment version of the file is loaded based on the [IHostingEnvironment.EnvironmentName](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.IHostingEnvironment.EnvironmentName*). For more information, see <xref:fundamentals/environments>.

*appsettings*.`Environment`.*json* values override keys in *appsettings.json*. For example, by default:

* In development, *appsettings*.***Development***.*json* configuration overwrites values found in *appsettings.json*.
* In production, *appsettings*.***Production***.*json* configuration overwrites values found in *appsettings.json*. For example, when deploying the app to Azure.

<a name="optpat"></a>

> #### Bind hierarchical configuration data using the options pattern

Author: It would probably fit better there, but I want to show it right away. Most of the time you should be using the options pattern. I don't want folks to read enough to get *appsettings.json* working then quit reading the doc and miss this.

On [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/), select **New application setting** on the **Settings > Configuration** page. Azure App Service application settings are:

* Encrypted at rest and transmitted over an encrypted channel.
* Exposed as environment variables.

For more information, see [Azure Apps: Override app configuration using the Azure Portal](xref:host-and-deploy/azure-apps/index#override-app-configuration-using-the-azure-portal).

See [Connection string prefixes](#constr) for information on Azure database connection strings.

<a name="clcp"></a>

## Command-line

By [default](#default), the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.CommandLine.CommandLineConfigurationProvider> loads configuration from command-line argument key-value pairs after the following configuration sources:

* *appsettings.json* and *appsettings*.`Environment`.*json* files.

> * [User secrets (Secret Manager)](xref:security/app-secrets) in the Development environment.

Reviewer: I've seen this refered to as "secret manager", "app secrets", and "user secrets" in this topic. It would be good to make that a bit more consistent.

* Environment variables.

By [default](#default), configuration values set on the command-line override configuration values set with all the other configuration providers.

### Command-line arguments

The following command sets keys and values using `=`:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run MyKey="My key from command line" Position:Title=Cmd Position:Name=Cmd_Rick
```

The following command sets keys and values using `/`:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run /MyKey "Using /" /Position:Title=Cmd_ /Position:Name=Cmd_Rick
```

The following command sets keys and values using `--`:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --MyKey "Using --" --Position:Title=Cmd-- --Position:Name=Cmd--Rick
```

The key value:

> * Must follow `=`, or the key must have a prefix (`--` or `/`) when the value follows a space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Must follow `=`, or the key must have a prefix of `--` or `/` when the value follows a space.
```

> * Isn't required if an equals sign is used. For example, `MySetting=`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Isn't required if `=` is used. For example, `MySetting=`.
```

Within the same command, don't mix command-line argument key-value pairs that use `=` with key-value pairs that use a space.

### Switch mappings

Switch mappings allow **key** name replacement logic. Provide a dictionary of switch replacements to the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.CommandLineConfigurationExtensions.AddCommandLine*> method.

When the switch mappings dictionary is used, the dictionary is checked for a key that matches the key provided by a command-line argument. If the command-line key is found in the dictionary, the dictionary value is passed back to set the key-value pair into the app's configuration. A switch mapping is required for any command-line key prefixed with a single dash (`-`).

Switch mappings dictionary key rules:

> * Switches must start with `-` or `--` characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Switches must start with `-` or `--`.
```

* The switch mappings dictionary must not contain duplicate keys.

> Create a switch mappings dictionary. Call `AddCommandLine` with the switch mappings dictionary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a switch mappings dictionary, pass it into the call to `AddCommandLine`:
```
